[WIP] Add copilot-instructions (#4917)
celestiaorg/celestia-app: .github/copilot-instructions.md

Whenever you generate code or documentation:

1. Use extremely simple, direct language—no unnecessary adverbs.
2. Make the code self-explanatory. Only add comments when an implicit operation must be called out.
3. Follow instructions exactly. Think critically about security: always double-check for hidden bugs or vulnerabilities.
4. Produce code that is highly readable yet concise. Do not abstract prematurely; defer abstraction until it's truly needed.
5. When writing Go, adhere to the latest official Go best practices (idiomatic naming, error handling, package layout, etc.).

## Go-Specific Guidelines

### Error Handling
- Always handle errors explicitly using the established patterns in the codebase
- Use `errors.Wrap` or `errors.Wrapf` from `cosmossdk.io/errors` for error context
- Prefer specific error types from `sdkerrors` when appropriate
- Never ignore errors with blank identifiers unless absolutely necessary and well-documented

### Naming Conventions
- Use clear, descriptive variable and function names
- Follow Go naming conventions: `camelCase` for private, `PascalCase` for public
- Prefer `ctx` for context parameters
- Use `k` for keeper receivers in methods

> - Use descriptive names for test cases and subtests

Reviewer: delete

- Use `testify/assert` and `testify/require` for assertions
- Name test cases descriptively to explain what is being tested
- Include both positive and negative test cases
- Test edge cases and error conditions

## Blockchain-Specific Guidelines

### Security Considerations
- Always validate user inputs, especially in message handlers
- Be cautious with arithmetic operations that could overflow
- Verify permissions and authority before state modifications
- Consider replay attacks and ensure proper nonce/sequence handling
- Validate cryptographic signatures and public keys
- Be mindful of gas consumption and potential DoS vectors

### Cosmos SDK Patterns
- Follow the established keeper pattern for module state management
- Use proper store prefixes and key construction patterns
- Implement proper protobuf message validation
- Follow ABCI method implementations (BeginBlock, EndBlock, etc.)
- Use appropriate store types (KVStore, Iterator patterns)

### Module Development
- Follow the module interface requirements
- Implement proper genesis import/export
- Use established parameter handling patterns
- Follow proper ante handler patterns for transaction processing

> - Implement proper querier patterns for gRPC queries

Reviewer: Delete

## Celestia-Specific Guidelines

### Blob Handling
- When working with blob data, always validate namespace format and constraints
- Ensure proper square size calculations and validation
- Handle share commitment verification correctly
- Follow established patterns for blob inclusion proofs

### Data Availability
- Be mindful of data square layout constraints
- Properly handle namespace merkle tree operations
- Ensure proper share encoding and padding
- Follow established patterns for data root computation

### Consensus
- When modifying consensus-critical code, ensure deterministic behavior
- Be cautious with floating-point operations in consensus code
- Validate all inputs in PrepareProposal and ProcessProposal handlers

> - Follow established patterns for transaction ordering and priority

Reviewer: Delete

# GitHub Copilot Instructions for Celestia App

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe we could tell it to write succinct pr descriptions

# GitHub Copilot Instructions for Celestia App

These instructions guide GitHub Copilot to generate code that follows the coding standards and security practices of the Celestia App project.

## General Guidelines

Whenever you generate code or documentation:

1. Use extremely simple, direct language—no unnecessary adverbs.
2. Make the code self-explanatory. Only add comments when an implicit operation must be called out.
3. Follow instructions exactly. Think critically about security: always double-check for hidden bugs or vulnerabilities.
4. Produce code that is highly readable yet concise. Do not abstract prematurely; defer abstraction until it's truly needed.
5. When writing Go, adhere to the latest official Go best practices (idiomatic naming, error handling, package layout, etc.).
6. Keep suggestions minimal and focused. Avoid excessive detail or overly prescriptive guidance.

## Go-Specific Guidelines

### Function Structure

> - Keep functions focused and single-purpose
> - Prefer early returns to reduce nesting
> - Validate inputs at the beginning of functions
> - Use guard clauses to handle edge cases early
> 
> ### Testing
> - Follow table-driven test patterns established in the codebase
> - Use `testify/assert` and `testify/require` for assertions
> - Name test cases descriptively to explain what is being tested
> - Include both positive and negative test cases
> - Test edge cases and error conditions
> 
> ## Blockchain-Specific Guidelines
> 
> ### Security Considerations
> - Always validate user inputs, especially in message handlers
> - Be cautious with arithmetic operations that could overflow
> - Verify permissions and authority before state modifications
> - Consider replay attacks and ensure proper nonce/sequence handling
> - Validate cryptographic signatures and public keys
> - Be mindful of gas consumption and potential DoS vectors
> 
> ### Cosmos SDK Patterns
> - Follow the established keeper pattern for module state management
> - Use proper store prefixes and key construction patterns
> - Implement proper protobuf message validation
> - Follow ABCI method implementations (BeginBlock, EndBlock, etc.)
> - Use appropriate store types (KVStore, Iterator patterns)
> 
> ## Code Organization
> 
> ### Package Structure
> - Follow the established directory structure
> - Keep related functionality in appropriate packages
> - Use internal packages for non-exported utilities
> - Separate concerns between types, keeper, and client packages
> 
> ### Imports
> - Group imports logically: standard library, third-party, project-local
> - Use specific imports rather than wildcard imports
> - Avoid circular dependencies between packages
> 
> ### Documentation
> - Document all exported functions, types, and constants
> - Use godoc-style comments that start with the item name
> - Keep documentation concise but complete
> - Document any non-obvious behavior or side effects
> 
> ## Performance Considerations
> - Be mindful of gas consumption in transaction processing
> - Use efficient algorithms for cryptographic operations
> - Consider caching for frequently accessed data
> - Profile code when performance is critical
> - Use appropriate data structures for the use case
> 
> ## Dependencies
> - Prefer standard library solutions when possible
> - Use established Cosmos SDK patterns and utilities
> - Avoid introducing unnecessary external dependencies
> - Keep dependency versions aligned with the project requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Function Structure
- Keep functions focused and single-purpose
- Prefer early returns to reduce nesting
- Validate inputs at the beginning of functions
- Use guard clauses to handle edge cases early

### Testing
- Follow table-driven test patterns established in the codebase
- Use `testify/assert` and `testify/require` for assertions
- Name test cases descriptively to explain what is being tested
- Include both positive and negative test cases
- Test edge cases and error conditions

## Blockchain-Specific Guidelines

### Security Considerations
- Always validate user inputs, especially in message handlers
- Be cautious with arithmetic operations that could overflow
- Verify permissions and authority before state modifications
- Consider replay attacks and ensure proper nonce/sequence handling
- Be mindful of gas consumption and potential DoS vectors

## Code Organization
- Analyze the project structure entirely before deciding where something should go.
- Prefer standard library solutions when possible

### Linting
- Use golangci-lint before submitting

### Documentation
- Document all exported functions, types, and constants
- Use godoc-style comments that start with the item name
- Keep documentation concise
- Only document mid code for non-obvious behavior or side effects
```
